---
title: 'Legal Circumstances'
---

## Legal situation

* First of all, you will need to thoroughly check the legal situation in your country, regarding consumption of products that have passed their Best Before Date. Foodsharing.de is legally allowed to exist thanks to a simple liability contract signed by every new Foodsaver, which acts as a waiver and clearly states that the food donor is excluded from liability of negligence. [Here you can find the German one used by foodsharing.de](https://wiki.foodsharing.de/Rechtsvereinbarung) and [here the English one from the Edinburgh initiative](https://yunity.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/FSINT/pages/58982448/Liability+contract+from+foodsharing+Edinburgh).
* The legal situation for Food-Share Points is slightly different but also based on foodsharing being seen as individuals sharing food without the continuity and big administartive efforts organizations provide. The Swedish initiative LivsmeDela from Uppsala has come up with a nicely written sheet on the legal situation for Food-Share Points based on European law, [which you can find here](https://yunity.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/FSINT/pages/58982452/Legal+statement+for+Food-Share+Points+from+Uppsala).
* Registering your community as a legal entity could make sense for liability reasons. Example: as a private person without a legal entity, you would take full responsibility if sued in court for food poisoning. The situations vary a lot from country to country and, frankly, we find it hard enough to research the legal situation in our own country, so hold on tight, check it out yourself and tell us what you find out!
* Staying away from money saves you a lot of trouble: You get food for free, so don't screw the nicely cooperating business by selling it!

If your country is following that awesome trend of forbidding supermarkets to throw away food (that we hope will expand to the whole EU... and further?), don't just assume that foodsharing isn't needed anymore. The amount of waste that comes from bakeries, cafés, grocery stores, brunch restaurants and so on is big enough to keep a big community of volunteers working quite actively! Maybe in those countries where food waste is banned (France as to February 2016, Italy considering it around the same time, certain southern Belgian municipalities having implemented it years ago), it could actually be the best time to get the supermarkets to cooperate with foodsaving as they must legally get rid of the food, and the existing organizations probably don't have the infrastructure and the needs to process all these donations just yet.